A machine learning project involves a number of steps.

1. Import the Data: It often comes in the form of a csv file. You might have a database with lots of data, we can simply export that data and store it in a csv file for the purpose of machine learning project.
So, we import the data.

2. Clean the Data: It involves tasks such as removing duplicated data. If u have duplicates in the data, we dont want to feed this to the model because otherwise our model will learn bad patterns in our data and produce wrong results.
So, we should make sure that our input data is in a good and clean shape. If there is data that is irrelevant we should remove them, if there are duplicates or incomplete we can remove or modify them.
If our data is text-based like name of countries, or genres of music, or cats and dogs, we need to convert them to numerical values.
So, this step really depends on the kinds of data we are working with, every project is different.

3. Split the Data into training/Test Sets: We need to split the data into two segments. One for training model and the other for testing it to make sure our model produces the right result.
For eg, if u have 1000 pics of cats and dogs, we can reserve 80% for training, and another 20% for testing.

4. Create a Model: This involves selecting an algorithm to analyze the data. There are so many machine learning algorithms out there such as decision trees, neural networks and so on.
Each algorithm have pros and cons in terms of accuracy and performance, so the algorithm u use, depends on the kind of problem you are trying to solve and your input data.
We dont have to explicitly program an algorithm, there are libraries out there that provide these algorithms
One of the most popular one is SIDE KICK LEARN.
So we build a model using an algorithm, next we need to train our model.

5. Train the Model: So we feed it our training data. Our model will then look for the patterns in the data.

6. Make predictions: We can ask our model that is this a cat or a dog and our model will make prediction.
Now the prediction is not always accurate infact when u start out, its very likely ur predictions are inaccurate.

7. Evaluate and improve:  We need to evaluate the predictions and measure the accuracy.
Then we go back to our model and either select a diff algorithm that is going to produce a more accurate result for the kind of prblm we are trying to solve.
Or fine tune the parameters of our model.
So eaach algorithm has parameters that we can modify to optimize the accuracy.